Welcome to the third task where we learned
about if statements and comparisons first, let's remove
the thing from the previous test that we have.
Yeah, and declare a new variable.
This is gonna be our familiar venerable city, by the way.
I don't have to surround the value here with double quotes,
but I think it's much more clear that this is a string value.
If I surrounded with double codes and now totally,
if statement, it has kind of words intact.
If you're familiar with other popular programming languages,
but you get used to it, we have.
If then square brackets be variable that we're trying
to compare, and here we're using it better.
That's why we perfect it with a dollar sign.
Double equals in some, um, some of the dialect you can use
just a single equal value, but this is a bit more familiar
for me and, ah, bit more widely used in other programming
languages.
That's why I'm gonna stick toe double echo sign.
Then we have new wine, the bank keywords,
and after that we have the body of the statement here.
I'm just gonna print out the city is forms and finally a.
So you can see we don't have current braces.
We have then and we're finishing.
Quit the F I keywords, which is the opposite of if it's
from that, we have the city's forms.
We can add a nail statement as well right before we finish
the lope.
So we're gonna have else, like, the city is unknown.
And maybe if I changed it into something else like, um,
Sharon?
Yes, we don't have the city's unknown.
And we can also, of course, that else if conditions to do
that. To do that, we have to use the keywords L f so right
before geo statements, we can have l f City equals jury again.
We have been, and we print out the city is during Uh huh.
And we're comparing strings here.
Let's see how we can compare numbers.
First, I'm going to select this whole piece of code here,
and to commend it, I have to type control or command,
and then squash.
This is gonna add comments to each of the lines.
And as you can see, common starts with a D s or pound signed
well declared two variables that how different values is
gonna hold about 25 B is gonna hold 105 or 105.
Then let's try to compare usedto.
So if a is greater than be, then I wanna echo a is greater
than be then I'm going at, um on else if statement So
if a equals B and we will print a is equal to be finally,
Finally, we're going to say B is greater then a If neither
of the previous two conditions are true, I'm finishing off
with a fi.
All right, let's see what happens here we get a is greater
than be quite weird, right, because the number 25 obviously
isn't greater than 105 However, if we use the greater dancing
the way that we do here, bash will compare these two values
a strings and because to as a bigger value than one
If we look at these two a strings 25 is gonna be bigger
than 105 So to compare them numerically, we have to use Bash
GT. Let's see if that works.
Yep. Now we have B is greater than a because we this
condition won't be true.
And we're gonna end up here.
We also have, um, similarly that lt which is more than that
GT, which is greater than a rico too empty and also e que So
if you wanna be absolutely absolutely sure that bash will
compare the two values those numbers, we also have to replace
the that that three equal science with Dash meet you right?
It's never next challenge.
You have to read the variable age from the standard output
standard, simple story.
And if the value off age is greater than 18, you have to
print, you're allowed to vote.
Otherwise you have to print.
You're not allowed to vote.
Go ahead and post the video and come back when you're ready.
Welcome back.
Let's hold challenge together.
I'm going to declare Couple of variables are the first one is
going to be voting age, which is gonna be the required page
for voting.
And this is gonna be 18.
And then I'm going to read the variable age from these energy
inputs that I'm gonna That's what I'm going to use the
command read with the prompt what's I can type today?
Obviously what's your age?
And then I'm going to say that in the age horrible.
Then if age is greater than voting age, we want to print.
You are allowed to vote otherwise you are not allowed to vote.
Alright, let's try to run that.
What is your age 20?
You're allowed to vote.
What is your age 15?
You're not allowed to vote.
Alright, great work everyone in Just ask.
We learn how to use a new statement and compare strength and
numbers Assume task for where we will learn how to pass
arguments to the executed script and also how to use four
whoops.