Welcome back in the four task will discuss positional
parameters and for loops.
But first, let's go ahead and just remove all that.
Of course, we have to keep the decoration top and let's
get started positional parameters or the arguments that
you give to your scripts when the scripts are involved.
So, for example, if one executive hello Shh.
And add additional arguments here such a foreign during and
so on. This we're gonna be the arguments passed to the script.
And these are also called positional parameters and tow.
Obtain toe access.
This position of parameters within the script, we can use the
door sign, one door sign two and so on.
Variables, for example.
The first parameter is acceptable within this door.
Sign one variable.
I was gonna Prince.
They were saying to us, Well, it's good that again.
And let's consider we have Florence and curing.
And to get a number of the past parameters, we can use the
door signed pound variable, which was very peculiar.
And also we can print over both using door sign at Richard
sets a few more here.
A few more cities you can see.
Um, we have This is the first variable.
The second one, the number ISS for account of the variables
is for it's here.
We have all of them preached by door sign at.
And if you want to integrate through these parameters and do
something with them, we can use a fore roof.
I think this looks as follows.
So for arc or argument or whatever you wanna call this, we
can call it Param in the collection Off arguments do.
And here is the body of the for work.
And for now we're just gonna equities program.
We have to finish off with the word done.
Let's remove all these for now.
If we execute that again, we have our cities printed.
Sweet. Let's do something fun Bash in.
But you can execute commands that modified the file system.
For example.
We have the envy command.
It is short for move and now we're going to use it to rename
files. For example, we can rename the document txt file.
You can see it on the left here and we can rename that Teoh
Ah, very important document dot Txt.
Let's go ahead and run that as you see over here, the
document was renamed.
Your next task is to write a script that except argument when
execute like we did here.
And we want to pass in some of the files that we have from
the left.
Your job is to rename these files using the envy command.
So post a video play around with the concept that we learned
in this task and come back when?
When you're ready.
Welcome back.
Let's solve the challenge together.
I'm gonna remove all the time because that we have here so
that we can right from scratch.
And I'm going to create a four group who reiterates through
the arguments that were passed there again, safety in the
door sign at at Variable and for each parameter.
I'm just gonna figure that we've done and here I'm gonna
rename this argument Two very important argument.
So this is gonna unnamed your original name to something,
starting with the prefix.
Very important.
Alright, let's try to run it.
Yeah, we can see the file that we have over here, so I'm, for
instance, I'm gonna passing image PNG and photo J. P. G.
Okay. And on the right, we see that we have these three names
free call.
If you want to restore the original names, you can use envy
from the command wine from a script or, of course, from V s
code. So just to exercise that green, we can remain very
important documents to exceed to just document dot Txt on.
We have the original name over here.
Good job.
In this task, we learned about position of parameters and
four whoops, assuming the next task where we will explore
functions.