Welcome back.
In the second task, we will learn how to use variables
and read user input.
Let's declare our first variable the thing that's a simple
first. You have to type the name of variable and then it's
value. Let's print out on the console.
And when I printed them using the door, say, when we'll get
that don't worry about it.
So let's go ahead and execute.
Hello? I say it again.
We have developed our variable.
You may have noticed that I didn't put any spaces
around the equal sign.
If I do that and try to execute the script again, we're going
to get a mirror.
This is because back shooting that city is a command
and we'll try to execute it.
If I put space right after the call sign, I'm going to get a
never again because bash shooting that for us, is a command
and was right to execute that.
So when we use the variable itself toe, assign it exported
or else like here, we use the name without the door sign.
But if you want to use the variables, value are just get
the video from the variable.
We have to put a dollar sign before the name again.
Here we're just declaring the variable.
Let's make that's correct.
That's why we don't have door sign.
And here we're using the variable and just getting its value.
That's why we put a dollar sign.
We can also surround the variable with double quotes
like that.
It should work the same way.
And we can also use something called parameter expansion
by surrounding the variable with curly braces and for fixing
it with the dollar sign.
So let's remove reports and surround variable name with curly
braces as a good this just as this, we're going to get
the same result.
So Procter expansion against the value from the variable
and the powerful toe thing here is that during the expansion,
the video can be modified.
For example, we can substitute strengths in the variable.
If I type swash on some level that should be replaced
with some other value on execute that.
Now you see that the floor, the first occurrence of four, was
substitute with war and something else that we can do
with this modifier is getting a sub string of our variable.
So if I typed Cohen for zero.
Cohen, five, is gonna get me just the first five characters
of the string.
Another coating is that we can get the length of the
of the shrink there we have eight and probably the most
widely used modifier is setting a default value
for the variable.
Let's see how we can do that.
With that Cohen minus and then some default value
that will be printed.
There's before Vettel.
We were printed if city is no or unnamed to strength.
So if I remove the decoration of city and takes into the gain,
I'm going to get the default.
Vero, If I have City, we're going to get the video
off this variable.
Robert does.
It doesn't change the variable value.
It just outputs default better here in this expansion.
All right, and now let's go to reading user input.
It's very simple to do that.
We can use a read command and prompt the user to type
something, for example, which, um, which is your favorite
meal? I'm gonna put the next from space over here
so that the other types after the texture space and we want
to say that in the meal variable and was going to print it
for now.
I'm going to remove everything that we have here
so that we have a clear console and let's go ahead and Mexico
the script again.
We get which is your favorite meal.
I can tap in French Price as we get French fries.
All right, let's have a simple exercise just to see what
we learned in this task.
Post video and read your hometown from the standard out input
and store that in a variable, then print only the first
three letters from that city.
Welcome back.
Let's have that together.
So I'm going to replace that prompts over here
with the question which is your hometown.
And I'm going to say that in the hometown variable.
Then to print only the first three letters, I'm gonna use
parameter expansion, so I'm gonna have hometown 03 propane,
only the first three letters.
Let's try that quickly and think of types of some random
string.
We have only the first three letters.
All right, that's all.
For the second task, we learned how to declare variables
and how to reach user input.
Assuming the next task where we will start using conditional
statements.